# ros_teensy

[master]: https://dev.mcgillrobotics.com/buildStatus/icon?job=ros-teensy/master
[master url]: https://dev.mcgillrobotics.com/job/ros-teensy/job/master
[![master]][master url]

This ROS package ports the `rosserial-arduino` communication package for the
Teensy MCUs. It uses the same `ros-lib` generated by the `rosserial-arduino`
package for the higher level and compiles the Teensy core Arduino library
implementation to provide the interface to `serial.write()` and
`serial.print()`.

## Requirements

There are several requirements for this package, first is the arm compiler 
toolchain from the GNU tools:

```bash
sudo apt-get install gcc-arm-none-eabi
```

Then you will obviously need the Arduino and Teensyduino libraries. You can 
find the Arduino library on ``arduino.cc/en/Main/Software`` where you will 
find your latest version. Unfortunately Arduino does not provide a static URL 
with the latest version of the library, so this URL might change with 
time. At the time this was written, the latest version was `1.6.7` so:

```bash
curl -O https://downloads.arduino.cc/arduino-1.6.7-linux64.tar.xz
tar -xvf arduino-1.6.7-linux64.tar.xz
```

For Teensyduino, the URL is also not static and will change. At this time you
can get it with

```
curl -O https://www.pjrc.com/teensy/td_127/teensyduino.64bit
chmod +x teensyduino.64bit
./teensyduino.64bit
```

Finally, you will need to set an environment variable to point to the where you 
installed the libraries. So add a line like the following to your `.bashrc` file
or any other file you source in every terminal

```bash
export arduino_location=<the_location>
```

## Usage

To properly use the `ros_teensy` package, your package containing your MCU code
to be compiled should follow this structure:

```
package
├── CMakeLists.txt
├── package.xml
├── arch1
│   ├── CMakeLists.txt
│   └── main.cpp
└── arch2
    ├── CMakeLists.txt
    └── main.cpp
```

Note that the toolchain file used to compile the sources will be determined at
a folder level, hence the reason for the `arch1` and `arch2` folders. These two
folders could (or not) be compiled using the same cross-compiling toolchain.

To compile using the `ros_teensy` toolchain you must include the following
commands in your different CMakeLists.txt.

At the package level:

```
cmake_minimum_required(VERSION 2.8)
project(<package_name>)

find_package(catkin REQUIRED COMPONENTS
    ros_teensy
    rosserial_client
    rosserial_arduino
)

rosserial_generate_ros_lib(
    PACKAGE rosserial_arduino
    SCRIPT make_libraries.py
)

rosserial_configure_client(
    DIRECTORY architecture1
    TOOLCHAIN_FILE ${ROS_TEENSY_TOOLCHAIN}
)

rosserial_configure_client(
    DIRECTORY architecture2
    TOOLCHAIN_FILE ${ROS_TEENSY_TOOLCHAIN}
)

rosserial_add_client_target(architecture1 target1_Firmware ALL)
rosserial_add_client_target(architecture2 target2_Firmware ALL)
```

Then inside each architecture folder, the CMakeLists.txt should contain the
following:

```
include_directories(${ROS_LIB_DIR})

FILE(GLOB_RECURSE ros_src
    "${ROS_LIB_DIR}/*.cpp"
    "${ROS_LIB_DIR}/*.h")
add_library(ros_lib ${ros_src})

add_teensy_executable(target1 main.cpp)
target_link_libraries(target1 ros_lib)
```

You will need to explicitly build and link to the `ros_lib` target for each
different architecture. Additionally, each target needs to be linked to those
libraries as well.

Note that it is the same principle for any other external libraries.

Additionnally, if your MCU code uses some of the Arduino/Teensy external
libraries such as `Servo`, `SPI`, `PID`, etc. You will need to add them to the
compilation process by adding this line before you create the executable.

```
include_directories(${ROS_LIB_DIR})

import_arduino_library(Servo)
...
add_teensy_executable(...)
```

We use the `import_arduino_library()` command regardless of if the library is
an Arduino or a Teensyduino library.

After the build completes, three files should be created for each Teensy target 
you added: `target.elf`, `target.elf.eep` and  `target.elf.hex`. They should be
located in the build folder of the catkin workspace:
`catkin_ws/src/<package_name>/architecture/bin`. Out of those files, the `*.hex`
file is the one that will get flashed to the micro-controller using your
favorite utility.
